Add Defense articles (#4)
xsleaks/xsleaks.github.io-sources: content/docs/defenses/opt-in/coop.md

menu = "main"
+++

## Explanation

> A good portion of XS-Leaks has multiple alternatives to execute the same attack, some **common** to each other. One of those alternatives consists of navigating the user away using `window.open`, gaining a reference to the opened `window`. With this reference an attacker can take advantage of some of its properties to perform multiple requests, ultimately inferring private information from them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A good portion of XS-Leaks has multiple alternatives to execute the same attack, some in **common** with each other. One of those alternatives consists of navigating the user away using `window.open`, gaining a reference to the opened `window`. With this reference an attacker can take advantage of some of its properties to perform multiple requests, ultimately inferring private information from them.
```

I think this requires some more explanation: what is this an alternative for? Why is this here? How is this a bad thing?

Author: Fixed here. 7aa153d

I did some major text changes here.

Exploiting XS-Leaks with `window` references is seen as the last available option, but it's usually the right way when:

- A page sets [Framing Protections]({{< ref "xfo.md" >}})

> - A page sets [`Same-Site Cookies` with `Lax` Mode]({{< ref "same-site-cookies.md" >}}) (navigating a `window` triggers a top-level navigation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A page sets [`Same-Site Cookies` with `Lax` Mode]({{< ref "same-site-cookies.md" >}}) (navigating a `window` is a top-level navigation)
```

> To prevent entrusted origins from gaining arbitrary `window` references to a page, applications can deploy Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy (COOP)[^1]. With COOP, applications are in control of who is allowed to have a reference to its pages, thus mitigating XS-Leaks which make use of such windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent untrusted origins from gaining arbitrary `window` references to a page, applications can deploy Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy (COOP)[^1]. With COOP, applications are in control of who is allowed to have a reference to their pages, thus mitigating XS-Leaks which make use of such techiniques.
```

## Considerations

> Implementing COOP in applications can often be overlooked by Developers and Security Engineers who are not familiar with such topics. Nonetheless, it’s important to highlight the importance of this Defense Mechanism as it is the **only way** to prevent attackers from exploiting XS-Leaks which makes use of `window` references (unless Same-Site Cookies Strict Mode can be widely deployed).

Reviewer: I would change this to say that since this is opt-in and relatively new developers often don't use it.

Author: My point is that most developers (or security engineers) don't usually have to deal with explicit `window` references in their day-to-day work, so that's why COOP is probably least popular between all opt-in web security platform features. This might also affect adoption.

I was highlighting this problem because I imagine this will be the last opt-in protection to be mainstreamed. Maybe we should discuss this better.

Reviewer: let's talk about this in person

Author: Fixed 4cde64a

> ## Deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deployment
```
